---
title: "Welcome!"
date: 2025-05-01T15:34:30-04:00
categories:
  - blog
tags:
  - Intro
  - update
---

# Welcome to my Python for Geotechnical Engineers Blog!

Hi there! I'm thrilled to start this journey of exploring Python applications in geotechnical engineering. As a practicing geotechnical engineer, I've spent years working with large engineering consultancies to implement computational tools that streamline analysis, design, and data processing.

My aim is to explore the **bigger picture**—how engineers can approach automation effectively, structure workflows intelligently, and embed Python within larger processes to maximize impact.

## What You Can Expect
- Frameworks for thinking about automation in engineering
- Code snippets for streamlining engineering calculations
- Discussions on integrating Python with industry software
 
## Upcoming Topics
Here are some topics I’ll be covering in the near future:  
✅ **Essential Python Packages for Geotechnical Engineering** – Exploring open-source tools for geotechnical analysis  
✅ **Building Web Apps for Engineering Calculations** – Transforming spreadsheet-based calculators into interactive web applications  
✅ **Understanding & Utilizing Open-Source Packages** – How to effectively learn, use, and get support for community-built tools  
✅ **Automating Data Extraction & Management with Python** – Streamlining the tedious task of geotechnical data processing 

## Join the Conversation
I’d love to hear from fellow engineers, researchers, and coding enthusiasts. Feel free to comment, ask questions, and suggest topics you'd like covered!

Stay tuned for my upcoming posts—exciting things ahead!

**Let's automate the boring!** (*Automate the Boring Stuff with Python*, Al Sweigart)

<script src="https://giscus.app/client.js"
        data-repo="geocodes-eng/geotech.github.io"
        data-repo-id="R_kgDOOfaFyw"
        data-category="General"
        data-category-id="DIC_kwDOOfaFy84CqiAh"
        data-mapping="pathname"
        data-strict="0"
        data-reactions-enabled="1"
        data-emit-metadata="0"
        data-input-position="bottom"
        data-theme="preferred_color_scheme"
        data-lang="en"
        crossorigin="anonymous"
        async>
</script>
